 Programming, where variables are used as pawns in the sick game of problem solving. Let’s begin with the story of one variable and explore how he was taken advantage of by the system. We'll call this sordid adventure, A Pointer’s Tail. 


On the motherboard of a MacBook Air lived a char pointer named p. ,  A home in memory was allotted for p, but a special mark was placed on p’s front door. The mark was a asterisk. Although p’s door had this mark, he lived among the other chars and types in town on a long street. The house that p lived in had an address like everyone else and it was the same size as the other chars in town, but the mark was always there on the front door like a scar on p’s life. 

The life that p lead was a fairly normal one and he became aware of others with marks on their doors. He never really paid attention to the mark, though. He was the same as his other char friends with or without marks. Most of the citizens, however, did not have this incriminating mark like p and the others. 

One day, p got a knock on the door. His friend SIZE had some information to share with him. SIZE had been around for as long as p could remember, his presence seemed constant in the town and he always seemed to have an immutable stance on political issues.

“Buddy, I need you to listen to me. The system is just using you as a pawn! I need you to listen carefully to what I am about to say,” SIZE pleaded with p. 
                       
“Ok, I’m all ears, ” replied p.

“When your house was created, a permanent mark was placed on your door. This mark means that the system can barge into your house whenever they want! This is not the worst of it! They can use your valuable household things to do other stuff! They can use your things to access the valuables inside of other people’s homes and change them forever! The system doesn’t even care about  the significance of your possessions or the meaning that they have to you. They ransack your place, collect data, and use it to get to another person’s house. What do you think about that, p?”

Waiting for his buffer to update, p stood in awe of the information which was just revealed to him by SIZE. “Wow. I always wondered what that star was all about..”

“That’s not all, p! The system can even morph your house into a different size! They can make it bigger or even worse, make it too small! They could make your valuables overflow into the street if they wanted for God’s sake!!”

The moments seemed to glide past p’s eyes as this new revelation began to sink in. As p stood in thought at the information that SIZE had just revealed to him, a gang of officers on gnus approached p’s door step. The words of warning raced past p as the officers and animals barged into his home and stuffed his belonging into their knapsacks…


