the understanding of memory and poniters is hidden in other languages



but in c we care about it

there is no other way for us to do it
other than getting our hands dirty and learning it



we are now done with chapter zero 



UNTAR CH1!!!!!!!





example code related to pointers



what is a pointer 

it is one of the types that c has 

we have seen int  signed and unsigned
we have seen char  signed and unsigned 


pointer is a type

waht is the job of a pointer 

it stored teh address of another thing... 
a pointer is pretty versitile 

that thing cn be used to store the address of another thing

it can store the address of osmething, 

	an int
	a char 
	a structure (not object, collection of stuff)


a pointer can point to a function 
this will allow a function to be passed as a paramter into an other funtion .. ! wowo 



let's pass in a function as an argumnet into another function

	pointers allow us to do this

x   --->    n()

f(x)   is   f(n())


javascript is very good at that 
js is a functional language
fucntions are first level citizens
functions can be used in the same way that you deal with other types






what is the purpose of using pointers to begin with 

if you have teh ability of allowing x to point ot a pice of data, 

	then when you have to share teh data with someone else, 
	you don't have to make a copy of the data, 
	you just give the poerson x, the ointer to the data
	and you don't have to make a copy of the data or fuction or struture etc..



to avoid copies 
to share data








undertand the terms 
you can then talk technically to other poeople about what you are doing 
so get an understanding of the terms 



don't assume that your initialized values are sequntially next to eachother ... 


chaces are that they are next to eachother.. 


but do not assume that!!! 




that is declaring a variable. 



the first time you see a pointer vairable in c, say hi to it 


%p

format print for pointers! addresses of memory things stored in memory. 




	1. name 
	2. type 
	3. value
	4. address
	5. size



you have to compolte the sentence! its a pointer..... TO WHAT??!?!



its a pointer to double.


any time you have a poinoter don't just say its a pointer 

know what kind of pointer it is


what is the size of it? 

the size of teh pointer is system dependent 
(waht is the foot print of p itself)
	how many letters are in the name of the pointer 

every poniter needs 4 bytes 
pointers have 8 bytes, too 
system dependent


as of now, it doesn't have naythng, just garbage. 

	when you do double *p;
 




